Coniuga il verbo andar nel preterite | (to walk) anduve, anduviste, anduvo, anduvimos, anduvisteis, anduvieron |
coniuga il verbo estar nel preterite | (to be) estuve, estuviste, estuvo, estuvimos, estuvisteis, estuvieron |
coniuga il verbo tener nel preterite | (to have) tuve, tuviste, tuvo, tuvimos,tuvisteis, tuvieron |
coniuga il verbo caber nel preterite | (to fit) cupe, cupiste, cupo, cupimos, cupisteis, cupieron |
coniuga il verbo haber nel preterite | (to have - auxiliary) hube, hubiste, hubo, hubimos, hubisteis, hubieron |
coniuga il verbo poder nel preterite | (to be able to) pude, pudiste, pudo, pudimos, pudisteis, pudieron |
coniuga il verbo poner nel preterite | (to put, place) puse, pusiste, puso, pusimos, pusisteis, pusieron |
coniuga il verbo saber nel preterite | (to know, find out) supe, supiste, supo, supimos, supisteis, supieron |
coniuga il verbo hacer nel preterite | (to make, do) hice, hiciste, hizo, hicimos, hicisteis, hicieron |
coniuga il verbo querer nel preterite | (to want) quise, quisiste, quiso, quisimos, quisisteis, quisieron |
coniuga il verbo venir nel preterite | (to come) vine, viniste, vino, vinimos, vinisteis, vinieron |
Coniuga il verbo ser nel preterite | (to be) fui, fuiste, fue, fuimos, fuisteis, fueron |
coniuga il verbo ir nel preterite | (to go) fui, guiste, fue, fuimos, fuisteis, fueron |
Coniuga il verbo decir nel preterite | (to say) dije, dijiste, sijo, dijimos, dijisteis, dijeron |
Coniuga il verbo traer nel preterite | (to bring) traje, trajiste, trajo, trajimos, trajisteis, trajeron |
Coniuga il verbo atraer nel preterite | (to attract) atraje, atrajiste, atrajo, atrajimos, atrajisteis, atrajeron |
Coniuga il verbo distraer nel preterite | (to distract) distraje, distrajiste, distrajo, distrajimos, distrajisteis, distrajeron|
Coniuga il verbo retraer nel preterite | (to bring back) retraje, retrajiste, retrajo, retrajimos, retrajisteis, retrajeron |
Coniuga il verbo sustraer nel preterite | (to remove, take away) sustraje, sustrajiste, sustrajo, sustrajimos, sustrajisteis, sustrajeron|
Coniuga il verbo dar nel preterite | (to give) di, diste, dio, dimos, disteis, dieron |
Coniuga il verbo ver nel preterite | (to see) vi, viste, vio, vimos, visteis, vieron |

when do you use the preterite tense and how you conjugate it ? | if the actions is in the past and you can pinpoint when or how many times it occurred or understand the span of time in which the action is used use the preterite tense. In other words we know the lenght of the action involved in the past. The conjugation goes like this: -ar verbs (hablar) -> hablè, hablaste, hablò, hablamos, hablastèis, hablaron. -er verbs (comer) -> comì, comiste, comiò, comimos, comisteis, comerieon. -ir verbs (abrir) -> abrì, abriste, abriò, abrimos, abristeis, abrieron. Note that most stem changing verbs do not show the stem change in the preterite tense. For example the verb contar goes: yo contè. The exceptions to this pattern are certain stem changing -ir verbs, which ar discussed under irregular verbs in the preterite. |

when do happens orthographic changes in regular verbs when used in the preterite tense ? | there are three standard ortographic/spelling changes that in the preterite occur only in the first person singular form (yo). These are: - verbs ending with -gar (the g changes to gu before e: yo lleguè) - verbs ending with -car (the c changes to qu before e: yo practiquè) - verbs ending with -zar (the z changes to c before e: yo empecè) |

Which are the patterns of verb with irregular stems and a special set of endings ? | here is a set of endings that are used with several common irregular verbs in the preterite: -e, -iste, -o, -imos, -isteis, -ieron The irregular stems that take these endings follow three recognizable patterns: - andar, estar and tener have the letters uv in the irregular preterite stems - caber, haber, poder, poner, and saber have a u in the irregular preterite stem - hacer, querer and venir have an i in the irregular preterite stem. Note that the only exception in these patterns is found in the third-person singular of hacer which is hizo. Also there are no accent marks on these irregular endings. |

What are the verbs that follow a stem changing pattern in the preterite ? | Most stem-changing verbs change only in the present. however stem-changing -ir verbs make small changes in the preterite as well. There are three groups of stem-changing -ir verbs in the present tense and each one has a specific stem change in the preterite, but only in the third-person singular and plural: - the verbs with the o > ue stem change, the preterite shows an o > u stem change in the third person forms. - the verbs with the e > ie stem change, the preterite shows an e > i stem change in the third-person forms. - the verbs with the e > i stem change, the preterite shows an e > i stem change in the third-person forms. - For those -er and -ir verbs with a vowel immediately preceding the infinitive ending, the verb ending for the preterite forms follows tis pattern: the third person singular verb ending changes from -io to -yo and the third person plural verb ending changes from -ieron to -yeron and in all other conjugated forms in the preterite the i becomes ì (with a witten accent): creer (to believe) -> creì cre'ste creyò, creìmos, creìsteis, creyeron There are few exceptions to this pattern: 1) the verb traer and its compount atraer and distraer follow a different pattern for their preterite. 2) Verbs ending with -guir (seguir) simply follow the pattern for stem-changing -ir verbs, because the u is not pronounced. 3) Vebs ending with -uir not preceded by g (destruir) make the change i > y in the third person conjugated forms, but all the other conjugated forms follow the regular pattern - All verbs ending with -ucir are conjugated like producir, where the c changes to j and the endings are: produje produjiste, produjo, produjimos, produjisteis, produjeron. |

When do you use the imperfect ? | we use the imperfect tense when referring to actions that took place in the past, either repeatedly or over an extended period of time. It also indicates that an action in the past took place during an unspecified span of time. This differs significantly from the preterite, which is used to specify actions either at a particular point in time or for a specific number of times. The essence of the imperfect tense is that the specific elements of time are missing. Messages in the imperfect do not tell us when specifically, but rather when in general. To summarize, the imperfect tense is used to refer to past actions in the following situations: - the length of time over which the action occurred is irrelevant - the number of times the action occurred cannot be determined. - the action is one of "being" i the past in a situation that was ongoing The regular conjugation of the 3 forms are: - ar verbs -> aba, abas, aba, àbamos, abais, aban (hablar -> hablaba, hablabas, hablaba, hablàbamos, hablabais, hablaban) - er & ir verbs -> ìa, ìas, ìa, ìamos, ìais, ìan (comer -> comìa, comìas, comìa, comìamos, comìais, comìan) There are only three verbs that are irregula in the imperfect, ser, ir and ver. Their full conjugation is below: - ser (era, eras, era, èramos, erais, eran) - ir (iba, ibas, iba, ìbamos, ibais, iban) - ver (veìa, veìas, veìa, veìamos, veìais, veìan) Also, just as hay in the present is both singular and plural the imperfect is habìa that means both there was and there were. (NB: in the preterite, hay becomes hubo but it's very rare to use it: hubo un ataque nuclear anoche - there was a nuclear attack last night). |

What are the most used way of using the imperfect ? | - Simple description. Many times sentences in the imperect simly describ how thing were. Whereas the preterite often ephasizes physical action, the imperfect frequently focuses on background description. Also, descriptions involgin a person's profession or role in the past are done in the imperfect temp. (El coche era rojo, Ana estaba casada). - -ing in the past. The addition of -ing" to a verb in english indicates an action in progress. References to such actions in the past generally omit metion of a specific lenght of time. We ften use this format to describe two actions going on the same tame (yo tocaba la guitarra y Juan cantaba). - Mental or emotional action or physical sensation. Feelings an mental actions are usually not bound by either time or number of occurrences (yo esperaba el autobus, no creiamos el cuentok estabas cansado queriais ir al cine, etc.) - would and could in the past. In english would and could both refers to imperfect and conditional tenses (depends on their bound with the time involved in the context). The imperfect tense is the one which could be translated in the spanish vesion. (Cuando yo era joven, jugaba al beisbol cada fin de semana). - Clock time and age in the past. When referring to time of day or one's age in the past, always use the imperfect. (Era la una cuando lleguè. Yo tenìa diez anos cuando conocì a Juan). - Going to do something in the past. An expression of intent, such as stating that one is "going to" do something, is a mental expression. In the ir + a + infinitive expression voy a comprar un carro there is no physical action taking place. Such sentences referring to the past, therefore, will be in the imperfect tense (yo iba a comprar un carro, Ibamos a come) - the progressive in the past. There are two ways to show the progressive (the -ing expressions) in the past in spasnish: you can use the imperfect tense (as mentioned before) or you can use estar + present participle, where estar is conjugated in the imperfect. This latter construction is identical to the present progressive except that in referring to the past, the conjugated form of estar is in the imperfect tense (yo estaba hablando, esàbamos comiendo, ellas estaban miràndose). |
