I don't speak Portogues ; yo no hablo portugués;
we don't work here ; nosotros no trabajamos aquì;
you don't listen to the radio ; tù no escuchas la radio;
you all don't study french ; vosotros no estudiàìs francès;
he doesn't sing with the choir ; el no canta con el coro;
they don't wait for the bus ; ellos no esperan el autobùs;
Which (one) do you prefer? ; Cuàl prefieras?;
Which (ones) do you prefer? ; Cuàles prefieras?;
How much bread does he eat? ; Cuànto pan come el?;
How many books do you read? ; Cuàntos libros lees?;
How much milk to you drink? ; Cuànta leche bebe usted?;
How many cities do you visit? ; Cuàntas ciudades visitan ustedes?;
la multidud da gritos ; the crowd screams (shouts);
el reloj da la una ; the clock strikes one;
hay que estudiar para aprender ; it is necessary to study in order to learn;
hay sol por la manana ; is is sunny tomorrow;
hay neblina esta manana ; it is foggy this morning;
el actor hace el papel de hamlet ; the actor plays the role of hamlet;
tienes sed? ; are you thirsty?;
tienes hambre? ; are you hungry?;
mi esposo tiene prisa ; my husband is in a hurry;
la reuniòn tiene lugar los domingos ; the meeting takes place every sunday;
the crowd screams (shouts) ; la multdud da gritos;
the clock strikes one ; el reloj da la una;
it is necessary to study in order to learn ; hay que estudiar para aprender;
it is sunny tomorrow ; hay sol por la manana;
it is foggy this morning ; hay neblina esta manana;
the actor plays the role of Hamlet ; el actor hace el papel de hamlet;
are you thirsty ? ; Tienes sed ?;
are you hungry ? ; Tienes hambre ?;
my husband is in a hurry ; mi esposo tiene prisa;
the meeting takes place every sunday ; la reuniòn tiene lugar los domingos;
quedar(se) ; rimanere;
rimanere a casa ; quedarse en casa;
my socks are white ; mis calcetines son blancos;
they are astrounauts from another planet ;Ellos son astronautas de otro planeta ;
what time is it? It is then o'clock ; que hora es ? Son las diez;
hamburgers and french fries are very popular in the united states; Las hamburgesas y las papas fritas son muy opulares en los estados unidos;
what is this? It is a flower; Què es esto? Es una flor;
what is this? it is a shoe; Què es esto? Es un zapato;
Where are you ? Where is Felipe ?; Donde estàs? Donde està Felipe;
John is angry. They are angry; Juan està enojado Ellos estàn enojados;
Jane is standing but we are sitting; Juana està de pie pero nosotros estamos sentados;
I am sad because you are not here; Estoy triste porque no estàs aqui;
Jane is anxious because we are not ready; Juana està ansiosa porque no estamos listos;
He is kneeling because we are in the church; èl està de rodillas porque estamos en la iglesia;
The chairs are not in the kitchen; las sillas no estàn en la cocina;
Why are you all here? ; por què estàis aqui?;
The tomatoes are green; los tomates estàn verdes;
Are the dogs in the living room ? ; Estàn los perros en la sala?;
This chicken is very good ! ; Este pollo està muy bueno!;
John is depressed; Juan està deprimido;
She is embaressed; ella està avergonzada;
They are in a bad mood because the television is broken and therefore they are bored; Ellos estàn de mal humor porque el teleisor està roto y por eso estàn aburridos;
there is a fly in my soup ; hay una mosca en mi sopa;
there are 52 cards in a deck ; hay cincuenta y dos naipes en una baraja;
is there a doctor in the house? ; hay un mèdico en la casa ?;
how many fish are there in the ocean ? ; Cuàntos peces hay en el ocèano ?;
there are three forks on the table ; hay tres tenedores en la mesa;
is there a bathroom in this building ? ; hay un bano en este edificio ?;
there isn't any water in the glass ; no hay agua en el vaso;
romeo loves juliet ; Romeo ama a Julieta;
I don't believe Mary ; No creo a Maria;
we listen to Jorge ; Escuchamos a Jorge;
they discover a thief in the house ; Ellos descubren a un ladròn en la casa ;
whom do you love? ; A quièn amas?;
do you believe the president? ;Le crees al presidente ? ;
we're waiting for Sylvia ; Esperamos a Silvia;
I watch Marcos and Teresa ; Miro a Marcos y a Teresa;
Timmy loves Lassie ; Timoteo ama a Lassie;
I ought to leave the office ; debo salir de la oficina;
We can see the light; Podemos ver la luz;
Can you swim well ? ; Puedes nadar bien ?;
Do you want to eat dinner now? ; Querèis cenar ahora?;
She wants to be a linguist; ella quiere ser linguista;
they shouldn't tell us anything; ellos no deben decirnos nada;
it is cold; hace frio;
it is sunny; hace sol;
it is windy; hace viento;
it is cool; hace fresco;
it is nice out; hace buen tiempo;
it is cloudy; està nublado;
it is raining; està looviendo;
it is snowing; està nevando;
it is drizzling; està lloviznando;
it is rainy/wet; està lluvioso;
it is humid; està hùmedo;
it is dry; està seco;
next week; la semana que viene;
next month; el mes que viene;
next year; el ano que viene;
they aren't going to be here; ellos no van a estar aquì;
it's going to rain; va a llover;
when are you all going to leave the room ? ; Cuàndo vais a salir del cuarto ?;
What are you all going to do tomorrow ? ; Què vas a hacer manana?;
We are going to buy a lamp; vamos a comprar una làmpara;
I eat lunch; yo almuerzo;
you eat lunch; tu almuerzas;
the dog bites; el perro muerde;
we approve; aprobamos;
you all beg; rogàis;
they count the money; ellos cuentan el dinero;
you show the house; muestras la casa;
she sleeps; ella duerme;
we solve the problem; resolvemos el problema;
she wraps the gift; ella envuelve el regalo;
I hang up the telephone; cuelgo el telèfono;
you return the shirt; devuelves la camisa;
he dies; el muere;
the telephone rings; el telèfono suena;
I find the money; encuentro el dinero;
we return; volvemos;
dumbo flies; dumbo vuela;
jane toasts the bread; juana tuesta el pan;
we pray for peace; rogamos por la paz;
he dreams about a tiger; el suena con un tigre;
I don't remember anything; no recuerdo nada;
the book costs ten dollars; el libro cuesta diez dòlares;
you move the chairs; mueves las sillas;
I taste the coffee; pruebo el cafè;
he wants a dog; èl quiere un perro;
do you understand? ; entiendes? ;
he loses the magazine; èl pierde la revista;
she bumps into the sofa; ella tropieza con el sofà;
they confess the crime; ellos confiesan el delito;
the program begins; el programa comienza;
I think about the war; pienso en la guerra;
you light the candle; enciendas la vela;
we convert the money to dollars; convertimos el dinero a dòlares;
I refer the case to the professor; refiero el caso al profesor;
coniuga il vebro seguir; (to follow) sigo, sigues, sigue, seguimos, seguis, siguen;
you all serve us; nos sevis;
who says this? ; quien dice esto?;
she is five feet tall  ; ella mide cinco pies;
they curse ; ellos maldicen;
he deduces the truth from the facts ; el colige la verdad de los hechos;
you compete against him ; compites contra èl;
they laugh a lot because they are happy ; ellos rien mucho porque estàn contentos;
all of you [formal] repeat the lesson ; ustedes repiten la lecciòn;
the priest blesses you ; el sacerdote te bendice;
what are you asking for?  ; què pides?;
to go to bed; acostarse (o > ue);
to shave oneself; afeitarse;
to bathe oneself; bañarse;
to marry (someone), to get married; casarse (con alguien);
to brush oneself, bush one's (hair, teeth); cepillarse;
to gobble up, eat hastily; comerse;
to wake up; despertarse (e > ie);
to undress oneself; devestirse (e > i);
to fall asleep; dormirse (o > ue);
to take  ashower; ducharse;
to get sick; enfermarse;
to get angry, get mad; enojarse;
to go away; irse;
to wash oneself; lavarse;
to stand up, get up; levantarse;
to call oneself; llamarse;
to look at oneself; mirarse;
to pass away; morirse (o > ue);
to comb one's hair; peinarse;
to become, get; ponerse;
to put on (clothing); ponerse (la ropa);
to worry (about); preocuparse (por);
to try on (clothing); probarse (o > ue);
to take off (clothing), remove (clothing); quitarse;
to dry oneself; secarse;
to sit down, seat oneself; sentarse (e > ie);
to feel (emotionally, physically); sentirse (e > ie);
to see oneself; verse;
to get dressed; vestirse (e > i);
I take off my hat; me quito el sombrero;
we get dressed in the morning; nos vestimos en la mañana;
you go to bed at eleven o'clock; te actuestas a las once;
your names are Brigida and Pancho; Os llamais Brigida y Pancho;
they become nervous; ellas se ponen niervosas;
you all wake up; Os despertàis;
they sit down; ellos se sientan;
she goes away; ellas se va;
my name is Rex; me llamo rex;
you take a shower; te duchas;
we get dressed; nos vestimos;
you all fall asleep; os dormìs;
she takes a bath; ella se baña;
I worry about the future; me preocupo por el futuro;
you all (formal) wake up; uds. se despiertan;
truth is important to me; me importa la verdad;
I don't like spiders; no me gustan las arañas;
my stomach aches; me duele el estòmago;
I have too many books; me sobran los libros;
she likes the autumn; a ella le gusta el otoño;
it seems ridiculous to me; me parece ridiculo;
I love your dress; me encanta tu vestido;
we have ten dollars left over; nos sobran diez dòlares;
I hate your attitude; me disgusta tu actitud;
I love ice cream; me encanta el helado;
you are missing a button; te falta un botòn;
these photos are fascinating to us; nos fascinan estas fotos;
the movie is interesting to them; a ellos les interesa la pelicula;
what is important to you? ; què te importa? ;
his manners disgust me; me disgustan sus modales;
this movie bores me; esta pelicula me aburre;
she bothers me; ella me molesta;
I am buying a gift for Juan; estoy comprando un regalo para Juan;
you are wathing the television; estàs mirando la televisiòn;
he is playing the piano; èl està tocando el piano;
we are eating pizza and drinking lemonade; estamos comiendo pizza y bebiendo limonada;
you all are receiving many gifts; estàis recibiendo muchos regalos;
you all[formal] are covering the furniture; uds. estàn cubriendo los muebles;
we are eating lunch; estamos almorzando;
I am thinking about my best friend; Estoy pensando en mi mejor amigo/amiga;
what are you doing? ; què estàs haciendo ?;
what is she eating? ; què està comiendo ella?;
they are sleeping; ellos estàn durmiendo;
she is lying to me; ella està mintièndome OR ella me està mentiendo;
the river is flowing to the south; el rio està fluyendo al sur;
the client is not believing the car salesman; el cliente no està creyendo al vendedor de coches ;
we are not reading anything; no estamos leyendo nada;
the president is not influencing the people; el presidente no està influyendo a la gente;
hatred is destroying our society; El odio està distruyedo nuestra sociedad;
romeo is fleeing with juliet; Romeo està huyendo con Julieta;
she isn't hearing anything in the basement; ella no està oyendo nada en el sòtano;
I'm studying it; estoy estudiàndolo;
you are singing it to us; estàs catàndonosla;
he is writing me a letter; èl està escribièndome una carta;
are you writing to them? ; estàs escribièndoles?;
why areyou all [formal] telling me this? ; por què estàn Uds. dicièndome esto?;
why are you telling it to me ? ; por què estàs dicièndomelo?;
they are sitting down; èllos estàn sentàndose;
we are reading it; estamos leyèndolo;
he is lying to me; el està mintièndome;
hat are you giving me? ; què estàs dàndome?;
they are following us; ellos estàn siguièndonos;
what is lily reading to you?; que està leyendote Lilita?;
