When is used the imperfect subjunctive and how it's formed ? |
The imperfect subjunctive is used in the same situations as the present subjunctive—
when there is an aspect of uncertainty, after certain expressions, and after
certain words (such as “perhaps,” “maybe,” and “even if ”). However, the time
frame is in the past rather than in the present.
In the study of the indicative tenses, we distinguish between the preterite and
the imperfect tenses in the past. This distinction is not an issue in the subjunctive
mood, where the imperfect subjunctive refers to actions in the imagined or hypothetical
past

Formation:
1) The base of the imperfect subjunctive is what remains after the -ron ending is
dropped from the third-person plural of the preterite tense. This is the base for all
forms of the imperfect subjunctive. (hablaron -> habla-; comiero -> comie- ; tuvierion -> tuvie-)
2) To this base add either of the following sets of ending
  - (-ra, -ras -a -ramos -rais -ran)
  - (-se -ses -se -semos -seis -sen)

Of these two sets of ending which may be used interchangebly, the -ra endings are more commonly used and these are the ending that are shown in the examples. Below is the full conjugation of hablar in the imperfect subjunctive:
  hablar -> hablara hablaras hablara hablaramos hablarais hablaron

|
What are the main uses of the imperfect subjunctive ? |
- Main clause in the past. When the main clause is in the past and the subjunctive is required, use the imperfect subjunctive
in the subordinate clause. (Ella querìa que yo hablara en espanol, fue terrible que estuvieramos enfermos)

- Main clause in the present with a subordinate clause in the past. When the main clause is in the present tense and requires the subjunctive, but the verb in
the main clause refers to an action in the past, the subordinate clause is in the imperfect
subjunctive. (Ella espera que yo no gastara todo el dinero, siento que no conoscieramos a Mateo)

- Hypothetical if-clauses in the past. Most if-clauses in the past fall under the heading “hypothetical” and are therefore, at best, presumptive,
which leads straight into the domain of the subjunctive. Consider the sentence “If I
were taller, I would play basketball.” My being taller is clearly hypothetical, and therefore the verb
“were” is in the subjunctive.
A few important points regarding this type of sentence follow.
◆ A subordinate if-clause in the past is very often linked with a main clause in the conditional
indicative. For example, consider the sentence “If I were taller (if-clause in the past), I would
play basketball (conditional indicative).”
Jugaría al básquetbol, si yo fuera más alto. I would play basketball, if I were taller.
Recibirías buenas notas si estudiaras. You would get good grades if you studied.
Yo no iría si fuera tú. I wouldn’t go if I were you.
¿Te quedarías si hubiera un incendio? Would you stay if there were a fire?
◆ Only hypothetical if-clauses in the past are in the subjunctive. If the intent is to elicit true information
(and therefore they are not hypothetical), the clause remains in the indicative. Consider
the sentence Pregunté a Juan si él sabía la respuesta (“I asked John if he knew the
answer”).
There are two indications that the conjugated form of saber remains in the indicative:
(1) The information is clearly verifiable (because all you have to do is ask John), and (2) the
main clause (Pregunté a Juan) is in the preterite, not the conditional.
◆ If-clauses in the present do not take the subjunctive: Si Juan tiene el dinero, te pagará (“If
John has the money, he will pay you”). If-clauses in the present are usually followed by either
the present or the future indicative.

- As if and as though clauses. The verb in a subordinate clause that begins with “as if ” or “as though” (como si) is in the imperfect
subjunctive. The main clause can be in the present, the past, or the conditional tense. (Te ves como si fueras culpable, actuabamos como si estuvieramos efermos).

|

How works the subjunctive imperfect with querer and poder ? |
The verbs querer (“to want”) and poder (“to be able to, can”) operate in a unique manner within
the framework of the imperfect subjunctive. Each verb takes on a special meaning when used in
the main clause of a sentence. Consider the following two sentences, each spoken in a
restaurant.
I want a cup of coffee.
I would like a cup of coffee.
The first sentence is direct and brusque and, if spoken with great emphasis, could sound rude. The
second sentence, merely by changing “want” to “would like,” has a softened effect and makes the
speaker appear more civil.
At first glance, the second sentence appears to be in the conditional. However, the conditional
tense is used to tell what would happen if a certain condition were met, for example, “I
would like a cup of coffee if I hadn’t already drunk ten cups this morning.” But that is not the
speaker’s intent here. He clearly wants a cup of coffee and he also wants to appear reasonably
courteous, so he changes “want” to “would like” and probably gets better service as a result! To
achieve this same sort of gallantry in Spanish, you need only to use querer in the imperfect
subjunctive.
Yo quisiera una taza de café.
¿Quisieras leer mi diario?

- A similar situation occurs with the verb poder. Consider the following
inquiries.
Can you wash the windows?
Will you wash the windows?
Could you wash the windows? or Would you wash the windows?
The first inquiry is in the present tense, and it implies that the speaker wants to know if the addressee
has the talent required to wash windows. The second inquiry is in the future tense, and it
is a request—spoken directly and with enough emphasis, it could be considered pushy. The third
inquiry (also a request) appears to be in the conditional, and it would be in the conditional if the
question were actually “Could you wash the windows if your hands weren’t broken?” But this
speaker isn’t seeking information, but rather someone to perform an onerous task.
In English, either “could” or “would” might be used with a slightly ingratiating tone, and
probably with an added “please.” In Spanish, the speaker begins with Si (“If ”) plus the imperfect
subjunctive form of poder, followed by the conditional form of the verb referring to whatever the
speaker wants done.
¿Si pudieras, limpiarías las ventanas?
¿Si pudieras, te sentarías, por favor?

- querer meaning “to wish”
The other specialized use of querer (“to want”) in the imperfect subjunctive is the context in
which it means “to wish.” To form wish-filled sentences, use querer in the imperfect subjunctive
in the main clause, and when there is no change of subject (“I wish that I had a million dollars”),
follow the conjugated querer with an infinitive.
Yo quisiera tener un millón de dólares. Quisieramos conocer a mas personas.

In such sentences, if there is a change of subject (“I wish that you were here”), the imperfect
subjunctive form of querer is followed by que and the imperfect subjunctive form of the
second verb.
Yo quisiera que estuvieras aquí.
Quisiéramos que él nos llamara.
Quisieras que no lloviera.
Quisierais que Juan estuviera aquí.
Ella quisiera que hubiera comida en la casa.
Quisieran que yo tuviera un coche.
|
